In this video we'll see what inheritance is all about in Object Orientation.
Inheritance provides a method of creating new classes from existing classes.
These new classes contain the data and behaviors of the existing classes.
So as you can see that allows us to reuse or inherit data and behaviors that already exist.
More importantly where we're using behaviors that have been tested and have already been used in existing
applications that's great but it wouldn't be very useful if I only inherited data and behaviors and
that's it.
But with inheritance we can modify the behaviors however we'd like to make our newly created classes
unique.
So the new class is based on an existing class but we can tweak it so that it does exactly what we want
it to do and we can do this without modifying the source code of the original class.
We're reusing.
This is important since that class has already been tested and it's probably being reused by other applications.
So we really don't want to modify it at all.
Of course inheritance must make sense.
We don't want to reuse a class employee and create a new class planet that contains the data and behaviors
of an employee.
Let's see some examples of classes that are related somehow.
In many applications when you're designing your solution you can identify classes in your application
that are related to one another.
Sometimes the relationship is clear and other times the relationship might be less clear.
This line provides some examples of related classes in a game application.
We might have player enemy level boss hero and super player classes.
These classes may have attributes in common such as health Expwy their position in the game world and
so forth.
In fact maybe the classes are all specializations of that player class in a banking application.
You might have different types of accounts.
Some may have specialized business rules for withdraw deposit minimum balances interest rates and so
forth.
But again maybe all accounts have a balance and provide the withdraw and deposit behaviors.
Usually we can find commonality among these classes and we can leverage that in a graphics or drawing
application.
We may have many different types of shapes that we can draw such as lines ovals circles squares and
so forth depending on our application.
Maybe we can identify common attributes that all shapes have perhaps their color.
They must be drawable you should be able to rotate and transform them and as you can see in the last
example maybe we have an application for university personnel system.
You might have person employee students faculty staff administrators and so forth.
You get the idea.
Related classes are all around us when we develop software.
Sometimes it makes sense to extract out common elements of related classes and model them on their own
so we can reuse them.
Let's look at the account classes in more detail.
Here we can see that our application has several different types of accounts.
We have a basic account that has balance in a way to deposit and withdraw funds.
We also have a savings account object that also has a balance but an interest rate as well and the deposit
and withdraw behavior might be a little different from those in the account class since they have to
consider the interest rate checking account also has a balance.
But maybe you have to keep a minimum balance and there are per check fees so the deposit and withdraw
behavior for the checking account will be different from both the savings account and the regular account.
Finally maybe we have a trust account that has a balance and the deposit functionality is just like
an account but to withdraw only allows three withdrawals per year of a maximum of 10 percent of the
account balance.
You can see that these types of accounts are very different but they also have some common attributes
and behaviors.
Let's see how we could model these accounts without any inheritance any reasonability
what we could do here is we could create four independent classes account savings account checking account
interest account and implement them all totally independent from one another.
Sure this will work but we'll surely have code that's duplicated across these classes since some of
the behavior and some of the data will be common.
Let's see how we can use inheritance to allow us to reuse the account class.
We'll look at proper C++ syntax for inheritance in a few videos.
For now let's just look at this from a conceptual view.
We have an account class that models a balance and provides a simple implementation for withdraw and
deposit.
Now we can use inheritance to create a new class savings account based on the account class.
So the savings account will inherit balance and the implementations of withdraw and deposit provided
by the account class and the idea is that now we simply add the interest rate attribute to the new savings
account class and implement its own version of deposit and withdraw.
The same idea applies to the last two examples.
A checking account is created using the account class as a base and then it adds what it needs and modifies
the behaviors to meet its requirements.
Finally the trust account adds and interest rate and implements the logic and the withdrawal method
that supports the business logic.
You can see that these classes are now interrelated.
In this case the savings account checking account and trust account classes depend on the account class
and we have an inheritance hierarchy.
In this case it's router that the account class will talk more about inheritance hierarchies in an upcoming
video.
So now that we understand what inheritance is let's go over some of the terminology and notation used
in the next video.